---

passed: January 2022

---

# Bylaws of the DSA National Technology Committee

## ARTICLE I. Name.

The Democratic Socialists of America National Technology Committee (also known
as “The National Tech Committee”, “The National Tech Working Group”, or “The
NTC”) is a national committee of the Democratic Socialists of America (“DSA”, or
“National DSA”).

## ARTICLE II. Purpose.

The National Tech Committee exists to organize DSA members working on tech
projects to support DSA members, national campaigns, national committees,
national working groups, local chapters, and DSA staff. The NTC will collaborate
with DSA leaders, including the elected National Political Committee and DSA
staff, to identify needs and coordinate member labor around technical projects,
including consulting, design and implementation.

## ARTICLE III. Membership.

### Section 1. Membership.

Membership on the NTC is open to DSA members in good standing who are interested
and able to contribute to the work of the committee and who have met with a
mobilizer authorized by the Steering Committee.

Members will be invited to, at minimum, quarterly informational update meetings
and provided with regular updates from ongoing projects. Members will have
access to communication platforms in order to communicate with the Steering
Committee and other members.

Work within the NTC will be coordinated within the NTC Secretariat. The
Secretariat is led by the Steering Committee Secretary and includes oversight of
NTC commissions and departments in order to coordinate budgeting, oversee
permanent infrastructure, guide new projects, and maintain perpetual knowledge
of DSA’s technology work. Members are expected to participate in NTC projects
via the Secretariat and its groups.

### Section 2. Code of Conduct and Resolutions Procedure.

Members of the NTC shall comply with
the [DSA Harassment Policy](https://www.dsausa.org/about-us/harassment-policy-resolution-33/).
This includes any and all communication on digital channels, such as chat,
email, and meetings. Membership may be suspended and access to restricted
channels revoked by

- Majority vote of the Steering Committee with the consent of the Chair

- As part of a transparent and consistently-applied process of removing inactive
  members

In extreme situations (including but not limited to immediate risks concerning
security and access to credentials) the Steering Committee may temporarily
suspend membership with only a majority vote with final removal depending on
consent of the Chair.

Members removed due to inactivity may rejoin through the standard mobilization
process.

## ARTICLE IV. Leadership.

The National Tech Committee is led by a Steering Committee (SC) made up of one
NPC Chair, four officers, and two at-large members, in addition to one DSA staff
member as an ex officio SC member. The SC determines where resources are
allocated, ensures the NTC’s direction remains aligned with DSA, and facilitates
the effective operation of the committee. The SC is expected to meet at least
twice per month and publish minutes of said meetings within 7 days. Meetings are
open to NTC membership, except during executive sessions that may be initiated
by a majority of the SC to handle business regarding organizational security or
otherwise sensitive information.

The SC is appointed per the NPC’s standards regarding open applications.
Following the appointments by the NPC, the selected six SC members will
internally determine their officer roles, with the NPC chair being automatically
selected and having final say on other officer roles if consensus cannot be
achieved.

SC members may be removed from their positions for malfeasance or nonfeasance.
Removal requires a majority vote of the remaining SC.

SC terms will begin on October 1st and end on the following September 30th to
align SC terms with the annual DSA national budgeting schedule.

The officer positions of the Steering Committee are:

### Chair (NPC member) and Vice Chair

> The chair and vice chair’s primary roles are to interface between the Steering
> Committee, NPC and DSA national staff. Their duties include:

- Organizing and chairing Steering Committee and full membership meetings

- Maintaining the NTC calendar

- Preparing reports and documents for the NPC

- Submitting a yearly budget and monitoring NTC spending

### Tools Coordinator

> The Tools Coordinator’s primary role is to interface with apps used by the
> NTC. Its duties include:

- Managing access to critical infrastructure, as defined by the Steering
  Committee

- Ensuring system access policies are documented

- Documenting and enforcing best security practices

- Documenting and standardizing usage of internal tools

- Managing committee handbook

### Secretary

> The Secretary’s primary role is to interface with the Secretariat. Its duties
> include:

- Updating SC during meetings on progress of active commissions, any groups that
  have fallen out of communication, etc

- Unblocking ongoing work in between SC meetings

- Keeping meeting minutes accessible to NTC membership and secure

### Communications Coordinator

> The Communications Coordinator’s primary role is to interface with NTC
> membership &amp; DSA as a whole. Its duties include:

- Ensuring NTC website is kept up to date

- Sending regular communications via Slack, email, and Action Network

- Posting on the discussion board

- Monitoring and delegating emails for committee inbox (ntc@dsacommittees.org)

### Two (2) at-large members

> At-large members will be expected to participate in NTC decision-making within
> the SC and be prepared to fill gaps. Their duties include:

- Helping make NTC decisions

- Being prepared to step into absences in the case of officers leaving

- DSA staff will hold an ex officio position to ensure a productive relationship
  between staff and the NTC.

## **ARTICLE V. Relationship to DSA Membership.**

The NTC ultimately exists to serve the needs of national DSA, answering directly
to the NPC. The NTC recruits and solicits assistance from DSA membership at
every level of the organization. The NTC acts as a consultant for technical
decisions that impact national DSA, providing expertise and leadership.

NTC membership should continually be assessed to ensure that membership reflects
the working class that makes up DSA, including geographical, gender, racial, and
technical experience diversity. The NTC SC is responsible for correcting
imbalance.

## **ARTICLE VI. Member Data and Privacy.**

As technology policies and projects may involve member data, the NTC will
develop policies and procedures to provide reasonable protection from unwanted
and unattended DSA member information exposure, including unnecessary access to
DSA membership Personally Identifying Information. All NTC members shall sign a
data usage agreement upon joining the NTC.

## **ARTICLE VII. Amendments to Bylaws.**

These bylaws may be amended by a ⅔ vote of the Steering Committee.
